---
layout: post
title:  "The physics behind data storage"
date:   2019-04-09 14:00:00 +0200
categories: jekyll update
published: false
---

### Weight & the gravitational field

Let's start by using the _mass_ property of matter to show some physical interactions, that are very similar to the ones we actually use to store data in our computers.

If you hold an apple with your hand and suddenly drop it, it will fall on the floor. This is due to it's weight. It's "weight" is actually the force applied on it by the Earth's mass. Two masses attract each other by a force that is proportional to their distance and to their masses: $$\vec{W} = G\frac{m_1 m_2}{r^2}$$ (where $$\vec{W}$$ if the force between the two masses, $$G$$ is a constant, $$m_1$$ and $$m_2$$ are the masses and $$r$$ is the distance between the masses).



> Explain using the parallel between mass / gravitational field vs. electric charge / electric field. Should we use another, simpler, parallel?

### Moving electrons

Now, how do we actually force electrons to move inside a metal? To understand this, we need to understand the relationship between the electric field and the magnetic field. 


### Description of a field (not really necessary?)

But what is a _field_? Tricky question. 

> A field is a "quantity" that has a value in each point of the space. 

For example, you can define the "wind field" as being the intensity of the wind on each point of the Earth's surface. 

Fields have been invented by physicists to describe more easily the interations of matter, such as the attraction between two masses. 

In a similar manner as we defined the gravitational field, we can also define the electric field. The electric field is the value of the force that attracts a charge particle (like the electron) around another charged particle.

> Explain magnetism and magnetic fields, generated by **moving** charges

> Explain how to move electrons using a generator

## Abstractions
=> Use abstraction to speak about generator and stored charge.